
*** Xor must be revealed!

His many faces are  scattered through 15
levels.  Acquiring all  the faces on any
level will  enhance your  knowledge of
Xor.

There  are  no  random  events in  XOR's
labyrinthine  palace, and  there  is  no
premium  on hand-eye  coordination.  You
have all the  time in the  world to work
out the  precise  nature  of the hazards
you  encounter.   Logical  thinking,
strategy  and  tactical  problem solving
are all part of the XOR experience.

Beware  Xor controls  his  world  and
doesn't give  up his personality easily.


*** Objectives

The  objective of the game is to collect
all the happy blue masks in each maze,
and to do so  within the  limit of 2000
moves.  This might be  easy were it  not
for  the puzzles which must be solved in
order to reach them.


*** Game Play

You  have  two  players  but can control
only one of them at a  time.   Move your
player around the maze to collect masks.
Once all masks are collected you must
reach the exit.

You may still complete a level if one of
your players has been killed  by a fish,
chicken, or bomb.

You may switch between your two players
whenever you care to, but this counts as
one  of  the  2000 moves.  Some  puzzles
require you to have both players near by
to each  other and to use them in tandem
to solve the particular problem.


*** Information Panel

The information  panel displays the icon
of  the currently selected player.  Next
to  the  player icon  you will  see  the
number of masks remaing to  be collected
and how many you have collected so far.
Beneath that are the number of moves you
have taken  so  far since  starting  the
level, and  beneath  that  the x  and  y
coordinates of that player's position in
the map.

The  remainder of  the information panel
is devoted  to the map.  In order to use
the map  you must  collect the  four map
pieces scattered around each maze.

In a standard 80x24  character terminal,
the  map    display  is    only  a rough
approximation   of   the  level  and   a
seperate    display  is available at the
touch of a key.  However, if running  in
a large enough terminal  then  the  info
panel will display the full detailed map
and there is no use of the map toggle.


*** Replays

XorCurses has improved upon  the  replay
feature of the original game.  XorCurses
allows  you  to stop  the replay  at any
point and continue playing from there.

You may also set breakpoints during play
or during a replay which  will stop  the
replay automatically at that point.  You
can then set a fast replay speed and not
worry about missing  the point  at which
you need to stop.

For  intensive  scrutiny  of the replay,
just press s to enter single step  mode.
The other replay extreme is hyper speed,
press  ).   Both  of  these   modes  are
cancelled by pressing q.

If you do not have enough time  in  your
life to complete a level, then just save
the replay  and load  it at a later date
then  continue  playing from  where  you
left off.


*** Tips:

In some situations it  pays to know that
if  you  move  vertically,  then objects
which move horizontally will move before
those that move vertically. Likewise, if
you move horizontally, vertically moving
objects will move first.

Set a breakpoint before any particularly
challenging puzzle you face  so you  may
have the replay stop at a  point  before
it all went so horribly wrong.

Press  'h'  for help followed by 'o' for
objects if you  cannot remember how  any
particular object you encounter behaves.

Nothing in XorCurses is random!

